README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/blob/master/_art/rs_small.png?raw=true" width="300" />
  <h3 align="center">The React State Museum</h3>
  <hr/>
</p>

**One Packing List App Written in:**

|                                                     Technology                                                      |                                                                                                                                       React                                                                                                                                       |                                                          React Native                                                           |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
| setState                                                                                                            |               [<img src="./_art/csb.png" width="40px" />](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/setState) [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/setState)               |   [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/ReactNative/setState)    |
| [React 16.x Context](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html)                                                         |                [<img src="./_art/csb.png" width="40px" />](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/context) [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/context)                |    [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/ReactNative/Context)    |
| [Redux](https://github.com/reactjs/react-redux)                                                                     |                  [<img src="./_art/csb.png" width="40px" />](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/redux) [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/redux)                  |     [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/ReactNative/Redux)     |
| [MobX](https://github.com/mobxjs/mobx-react)                                                                        |                   [<img src="./_art/csb.png" width="40px" />](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/mobx) [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/mobx)                   |     [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/ReactNative/MobX)      |
| [unstated](https://github.com/jamiebuilds/unstated)                                                                 |               [<img src="./_art/csb.png" width="40px" />](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/unstated) [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/unstated)               |   [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/ReactNative/Unstated)    |
| [MobX-State-Tree](https://github.com/mobxjs/mobx-state-tree)                                                        |        [<img src="./_art/csb.png" width="40px" />](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/mobx-state-tree) [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/mobx-state-tree)        | [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/ReactNative/MobXStateTree) |
| [GraphQL Apollo](https://github.com/apollographql/react-apollo) + [Amazon AppSync](https://aws.amazon.com/appsync/) |                [<img src="./_art/csb.png" width="40px" />](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/appsync) [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/appsync)                |    [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/ReactNative/AppSync)    |
| setState + [react-automata](https://github.com/MicheleBertoli/react-automata)                                       |         [<img src="./_art/csb.png" width="40px" />](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/react-automata) [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/react-automata)         | [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/ReactNative/ReactAutomata) |
| [Freactal](https://github.com/FormidableLabs/freactal/)                                                             |               [<img src="./_art/csb.png" width="40px" />](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/freactal) [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/freactal)               |   [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/ReactNative/Freactal)    |
| [ReduxX](https://github.com/msteckyefantis/reduxx)                                                                  |                 [<img src="./_art/csb.png" width="40px" />](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/reduxx) [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/reduxx)                 |    [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/ReactNative/ReduxX)     |
| [pure-store](https://github.com/gunn/pure-store)                                                                    |             [<img src="./_art/csb.png" width="40px" />](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/pure-store) [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/pure-store)             |  [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/ReactNative/pure-store)   |
| [Microstates](https://github.com/microstates/microstates.js/)                                                       |            [<img src="./_art/csb.png" width="40px" />](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/microstates) [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/microstates)            |                                                            _Errors_                                                             |
| [ReactObservableStore](https://github.com/taviroquai/ReactObservableStore)                                          | [<img src="./_art/csb.png" width="40px" />](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/react-observable-store) [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/react-observable-store) |                                                            _Errors_                                                             |

### Examples to help portray the how, why, which, pros, and cons of various state management systems in the React ecosystem.

Every app is meant to be small, simple, and the same as each other.  The only difference should be the state management decisions of each.  The repeated React and ReactNative app is a Packing List, with the name based on the state technology.

|                         Web                          |                      Native                       |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| ![example gif of app](./_art/museumWeb.gif?raw=true) | ![example gif of app](./_art/museum.gif?raw=true) |


## What are the differences?
Look at the code for yourself, _OR_ check this blog post on the findings.
> https://hackernoon.com/the-react-state-museum-a278c726315

**To Run Web**
* Click the codesandbox link in the list above
* _OR_ Clone this repo, then `cd` into each folder and follow the directions in readme

**To Run Native**
* Clone this repo, then `cd` into each folder and follow the directions in readme

Commit message:

:page_with_curl: identify libs that do not transfer to RN

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/blob/master/_art/rs_small.png?raw=true" width="300" />
  <h3 align="center">The React State Museum</h3>
  <hr/>
</p>

**One Packing List App Written in:**

|                                                     Technology                                                      |                                                                                                                                       React                                                                                                                                       |                                                          React Native                                                           |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
| setState                                                                                                            |               [<img src="./_art/csb.png" width="40px" />](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/setState) [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/setState)               |   [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/ReactNative/setState)    |
| [React 16.x Context](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html)                                                         |                [<img src="./_art/csb.png" width="40px" />](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/context) [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/context)                |    [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/ReactNative/Context)    |
| [Redux](https://github.com/reactjs/react-redux)                                                                     |                  [<img src="./_art/csb.png" width="40px" />](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/redux) [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/redux)                  |     [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/ReactNative/Redux)     |
| [MobX](https://github.com/mobxjs/mobx-react)                                                                        |                   [<img src="./_art/csb.png" width="40px" />](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/mobx) [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/mobx)                   |     [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/ReactNative/MobX)      |
| [unstated](https://github.com/jamiebuilds/unstated)                                                                 |               [<img src="./_art/csb.png" width="40px" />](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/unstated) [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/unstated)               |   [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/ReactNative/Unstated)    |
| [MobX-State-Tree](https://github.com/mobxjs/mobx-state-tree)                                                        |        [<img src="./_art/csb.png" width="40px" />](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/mobx-state-tree) [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/mobx-state-tree)        | [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/ReactNative/MobXStateTree) |
| [GraphQL Apollo](https://github.com/apollographql/react-apollo) + [Amazon AppSync](https://aws.amazon.com/appsync/) |                [<img src="./_art/csb.png" width="40px" />](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/appsync) [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/appsync)                |    [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/ReactNative/AppSync)    |
| setState + [react-automata](https://github.com/MicheleBertoli/react-automata)                                       |         [<img src="./_art/csb.png" width="40px" />](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/react-automata) [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/react-automata)         | [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/ReactNative/ReactAutomata) |
| [Freactal](https://github.com/FormidableLabs/freactal/)                                                             |               [<img src="./_art/csb.png" width="40px" />](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/freactal) [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/freactal)               |   [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/ReactNative/Freactal)    |
| [ReduxX](https://github.com/msteckyefantis/reduxx)                                                                  |                 [<img src="./_art/csb.png" width="40px" />](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/reduxx) [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/reduxx)                 |    [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/ReactNative/ReduxX)     |
| [pure-store](https://github.com/gunn/pure-store)                                                                    |             [<img src="./_art/csb.png" width="40px" />](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/pure-store) [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/pure-store)             |  [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/ReactNative/pure-store)   |
| [Microstates](https://github.com/microstates/microstates.js/)                                                       |            [<img src="./_art/csb.png" width="40px" />](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/microstates) [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/microstates)            |                                                            _Does Not Transfer_                                                             |
| [ReactObservableStore](https://github.com/taviroquai/ReactObservableStore)                                          | [<img src="./_art/csb.png" width="40px" />](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/react-observable-store) [<img src="./_art/octo.png" width="36px" />](https://github.com/GantMan/ReactStateMuseum/tree/master/React/react-observable-store) |                                                            _Does Not Transfer_                                                             |

### Examples to help portray the how, why, which, pros, and cons of various state management systems in the React ecosystem.

Every app is meant to be small, simple, and the same as each other.  The only difference should be the state management decisions of each.  The repeated React and ReactNative app is a Packing List, with the name based on the state technology.

|                         Web                          |                      Native                       |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| ![example gif of app](./_art/museumWeb.gif?raw=true) | ![example gif of app](./_art/museum.gif?raw=true) |


## What are the differences?
Look at the code for yourself, _OR_ check this blog post on the findings.
> https://hackernoon.com/the-react-state-museum-a278c726315

**To Run Web**
* Click the codesandbox link in the list above
* _OR_ Clone this repo, then `cd` into each folder and follow the directions in readme

**To Run Native**
* Clone this repo, then `cd` into each folder and follow the directions in readme
